do you want practical tips to make SEO a
top lead generation and revenue driver
for your B2B business then stay tuned
hey I'm Sam Dunning Kona over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100 B2B
marketing podcast business growth show
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly emails where I share actionable
B2B marketing website and SEO tips free
giveaways podcasts and more you can give
it a try over at businessgrowth dot
email so this episode is taken from a
recent interview where Linda Malone
invited me onto her podcast and show I
share a bunch of practical tips
strategies and Frameworks so you can
make SEO a top lead and revenue driver
for your company let's dive into the
episode thank you so much Sam for taking
the time to talk to me today I
appreciate it
cheers Linda looking forward to the chat
it's funny because we spoke once before
I interviewed you and I thought it was a
long time ago it hasn't been a year and
so I thought okay am I bringing Sam back
on too soon but you know what so much
has changed and so much is changing so
rapidly that I'm going to justify having
you on four years and up just because I
have so many questions for you and when
it comes to SEO I mean you're the guy so
yeah I just have a lot a lot to to talk
to you about always down to talk
yesterday yeah and you know what can we
start with something kind of fun you
have your SEO man that Persona and you
also for while you were doing like a 50s
gangster sort of thing oh yeah
what is that SVO fellas oh SEO fellows
okay I'm half Italian I should know
about that kind of thing I just I'm
really impressed that you took a concept
in personified it like that have people
like because that brought people in or
what impact has that had on your on your
business
yeah it's it's a tricky one right
because like with any content that you
publish on channels like YouTube where
we put most of it as well as LinkedIn
where we cut up the shorter videos it's
it's hard to say like the exact inquiry
that that video might have brought in
but as with most forms of content
marketing it I guess it brings people
One Step Closer towards working with us
so whether they found it completely
stupid so maybe it puts someone off
working with me for life because they
saw me dressed up in a superhero outfit
as SEO man or they saw me in a gangster
outfit as the SEO fella himself or maybe
they thought actually this guy doesn't
mind having a laugh he seems to know a
little bit of what he's talking about
when it comes to SEO and at the same
time he doesn't mind having a laughing
joke so maybe it did take someone on The
Next Step Closer to thinking as and when
I need SEO help I'm going to work with
them so as with most forms of content
especially on the social side of things
It's tricky to say whether that tips
someone over the edge but it certainly
got a lot of interesting feedback both
in the feed and on DMS a lot of people
seem to enjoy it and like you say a lot
of the content that goes out there is a
bit samey so it's quite fun to both
record those and publish something
that's a little bit out there I just
love it because clearly you're an
extrovert right because you also had a
post about having a party for 25 people
or barbecue like that
oh yeah I'm a funny one like I I don't
mind doing podcast interviews and stuff
like that but face to face I'm not that
great that's why I don't mind doing
video calls and doing podcasts and
things like that so once one I'm great
in massive groups yeah not so much an
extra bit so I'm probably somewhere in
between I guess okay yeah because every
time I see one of those videos it's like
I just I couldn't imagine dressing up I
mean I'd be arrested like just going out
in my neighborhood like people would be
like what is wrong
so I give you a lot of credit for that
but on the SEO front so before I even
get into a lot of the questions I want
to ask I have to talk about the elephant
that's in everyone's room right now
which is AI and I wanted to know what is
the impact that AI has had on SEO and on
your business like what have you seen
a Sofia not a ton but I think in the
coming months it will impact SEO a lot
at the moment I mean at the time of
recording where what June in 2023 so a
lot of people a lot of clients and
Prospects were asking questions
especially around kind of how content
could be impacted because now there's so
many tools that can produce paragraphs
and pages of content at the click of a
button or a prompt in chat GPT or
whatever AI tool you use so there's a
lot of questions around how effective
that is
there's other questions around things
like how is Google going to evolve its
search engine results page which is
subject to change the exact timeline we
don't know yet but it's I think it's
both good and perhaps not so good I
think the good part is that Google's
striving to give people answers to their
questions faster
so rather than the traditional you might
ask a question like let's say it's
Fitness based like how do I lose 20
pounds in 12 weeks
then traditionally you might have to
troll through four or five articles on
the results page whereas now they might
give you all the results above the fold
um without having to click through an
article and then you might lend say look
there's two or three articles that
expand on the topic they're also
bringing out a perspective tabs a
perspectives tab in the next couple of
weeks and so you click the perspectives
Tab and that gives you results so rather
than articles you'll bring up results
like YouTube shorts or Reddit threads or
communities so it's actually giving you
answers from the horse's mouth from
people that have hands-on experience on
the topic themselves rather than someone
that's just written an article that
might not have ever actually experienced
a topic so from an educational
standpoint content I think it's going to
improve
from a more direct standpoint I.E when
someone's searching for a specific offer
or service or product it might not
change so much so I think there's some
good angles and there's some lots of
good angles that it's gonna impact we're
happy to dive into those as you wish
yeah well it's sort of like with
copywriting and somebody had posted on
LinkedIn the other day that there was a
company that laid off all of their
people because of you know the new AI
tools and so I I responded with uh uh by
saying that there was a eating disorder
site that had fired all their people to
answer their phones and they had to they
had a chat an AI chat come in um in its
place and it started having creating
more problems people were calling or
texting for advice and they were getting
bad advice so they had to get rid of
that so there's the humanitarian part
like as far as you know what I do it
seems like it's going to up the game for
platforms and search engines like Google
you know like what you just said
yeah I think in a lot of ways like I was
saying then Google want to give people
the most relevant answers to their
question but that said they still I mean
Google makes a ton of its revenue from
Paid ads so Google AdWords and if they
completely remove that above the fold
section and instead of giving you the
ads they serve you just answers to your
question or relevant content if they
just do all that above the fold there
they're not going to really make the
revenue they need and so I think when it
comes to kind of higher up in the sales
funnel when you've got initial questions
queries looking to fix a problem it
might change a fair bit so you might see
the answer come above the fold and then
you might see some supporting articles
when you're perhaps later in the sales
process I.E you're searching for a
specific vendor or solution or similar I
feel like it's not going to change the
results so much but from a Content
standpoint as as you know Linda I think
there's some tools that are okay in
terms of the fact that they can give you
you can prompt these tools to write
certain topics or articles and it could
be a good starting Foundation but I
think still at this point in time
nothing's going to be quite as good as a
subject matter expert who knows the
industry who knows the prospects pain
points that you're writing about you can
give that Insider knowledge that's
really gonna give the user actually what
they need and give them the details are
juicy inside the info that they're
usually searching for yeah exactly I
mean you still need that human element
it's far as like B to B what's the real
importance of SEO yeah well according to
99 of B2B companies SEO is dead so not
too sure
Jokes Aside
Jokes Aside yeah it depends really so I
mean if you're if you're a B2B company
and providing that you're in a somewhat
established Market I.E prospects are
aware that your solution is out there
then organic search SEO probably has
some relevance what we tend to see is a
lot of B2B companies invest quite
heavily in like paid ads or LinkedIn ads
or trade shows maybe they've got an
outbound sales team running cold email
code calls but quite often they'll just
neglect organic search SEO quite heavily
which simply means that when kind of
prospects or potential clients are
searching for your offer or they're
comparing Alternatives or they've got
questions around your industry or Niche
then your competitors just are simply
lapping up all that traffic and all
those sales leads I think a lot of it is
to do with traditional B2B models like a
lot of B2B companies are just especially
in the tech world are following What's
called the um predictable revenue and
basically that is you hire a team of
sdis or bdrs they generate appointments
for your account execs by Cold Outreach
or similar and then likewise they'll be
paid Outreach but they're quite they'll
quite often neglected SEO so it means
that B2B companies in some cases can get
quite quick wins just by investing in a
good SEO strategy so yeah provided
you've got a market you've got prospects
that are aware that your solution is out
there then SEO is a really good channel
to invest in yeah it just seems like
every excuse me everything that works
people somebody's going to say oh it's
dead you know and I I don't oh just to
be controversial you know because it's
oh well what do you mean by that because
they say that about everything and I
have to learn to ignore it especially on
LinkedIn everyone's talking about things
like that so how can B2B scale SEO for
free you talk about backlinks can you
talk a little bit about that what are
what are backlinks and then how can you
know we use those and sure a backlink is
literally a hyper hyperlinked
um piece of content are linked from one
site back to yours and that can be as
simple as a URL on another page of
another website linking back to your
site or it could be a specific keyword
that you're going after that's on
another company's blog article or
website page or similar that links
through as a do follow link to your site
and the reason that backlinks can be
useful is that they are seen as a trust
building Factor by Google they can build
up your domain Authority basically
juicing up your website in the organic
rankings which is particularly useful if
you're trying to rank for somewhat
competitive Search terms that perhaps
have a lot of other competitors trying
to rank for the same kind of thing so
the thing with SEO is if you're in a
very Niche industry with perhaps little
competitions sometimes you can get Pages
ranking page one pretty fast when
there's a lot of competitors that's when
backlinks become really useful but yeah
happy to share some strategies that
companies perhaps perhaps want to juice
up their organic SEO on how they can
acquire links yeah sure little or no
work so one that I like to share quite a
lot when it comes to building links
which is pretty free it's just going to
involve kind of a bit of time and a bit
of effort is just like we're doing now
podcasting so what that actually looks
like is there's a pretty cool podcasting
site and this this tip's actually
two-fold so it's going to give you some
good brand exposure and Trust built in
your industry and it's also going to
give you a decent backlink and help your
SEO so there's a site called Charter
pool I use all the time it's free to
sign up and it essentially gives you all
the top charts in each podcast sector so
you could search like marketing
technology recruitment all the different
filters so you literally go on
charterable you go into the top charts I
usually hit Apple podcasts and then you
can filter it by like UK us to fill it
by whatever countries you want to Target
in choose your sector choose a sector
that's relevant in our case maybe
marketing or whatever's relevant to your
industry
then it will list out the top 50
podcasts in that Niche so you get those
listings and then all you've got to do
is check into the listing see who hosts
the show and then my recommendation is
rather than a cold email because most of
us get a ton of Colder emails Etc is
drop them a painfully short connection
request personalized on LinkedIn so
usually I'll do something like I'll hunt
out the host of a show
I'll find that LinkedIn profile just
drop them a quick note maybe say look I
listened to episode 51 on this thought
this was interesting and would you be
against coming on my top 100 B2B
marketing show for the question mark
something super short like that 95 of
the time no check it out and respond as
long as they're active on LinkedIn
and then they'll either say yes some or
they might say I'm a bit busy we'll do a
couple months so if you make a Cadence
to maybe do I don't know five or ten of
those a day you could easily work your
way through
and then all we've got to do is of
course is record the podcast on the
basis you do a half valuable episode
this is taking into consideration you
know your subject matter you can provide
some actual tips to the audience and
then when they publish it on their
website you can just ask for a link back
to your site or a Target keyword or
Target page perhaps they ask for
something in return or something similar
and yeah you get a two hit because you
get a podcast episode to show thought
leadership but you also get a back link
back to your site and it builds up your
your SEO so that's one of my favorites
but there's a bunch more as well I've
never charitable so it's shotsable.com
yeah okay check that out I never heard
of it so yeah I recommend it for it's
cool because if you run a podcast as
well you can create a free account and
it tells you each day emails you where
your podcasts are on the rankings for
each country in each category
so yeah so really I I just get addicted
to it because I constantly check when my
podcasts are like there's stats and all
that kind of stuff so that's awesome
because yours is always one of the top
ones in marketing so it's okay so yeah
that's one way and then another way
which is again free and good in a number
of ways is Partnerships
so seek out potential partners that
perhaps serve similar type of clients
so as an example in our case we do SEO
so we don't tend to do a bunch of
content so in our case Linda you might
be a potential partner a LinkedIn ads
agency might be a potential partner a PR
agency might be a partner a CRM provider
might be a part of those kind of things
and they're going to serve similar types
of B2B clients like Tech and service
clients to us so we could reach out to
them and say hey guys we we kind of
serve a similar client base and would
you be open to creating some content
together whether it's like a joint video
episode or a joint blog article
some kind of piece of media and then
maybe you both create an article
together and then you link back to each
other on the article
um and what you can do as well is the
reason this is twofold is the great
um reason for having partners is not
only can you do some SEO work some
backlinks together but you can also send
lead leads each other away
it's like if you get a prospective
client that needs their offer that you
don't serve you send that to them and
when they get similar they send it back
to you so it's like a two-way business
driver that's great have you had a lot
of success with that approach because I
do look for agencies there's a lot of
them that use copywriters usually what
happens is like yeah we'll keep you in
mind and I touch base here and there but
it hasn't really been a big
generator for me a couple of times but
not not a lot yeah to be blunt is
there's only probably two or three with
us that have been great a lot have been
similar but then I suppose it's it's
also because I suppose it's a two-way
thing and you're always going to get
companies that are more give than take
like for example we partner with Justin
Rowe at impactable so I'll send his guys
like literally anytime someone asks for
LinkedIn ads work I'll just send a
client their way but they're exactly the
same like every time they need an SEO
partner or web partner they'll ping the
client my way
so it's very similar
um so I think it needs to be give and
take it's but like you say is a it is
one where you'll have to speak to
several Partners
um because some people will give more
than they take but that's that's the
same sadly a lot of people were selfish
and that's the way it is in business so
you'll have to it does take a bit of
work up front I think the intention is
good like I never feel like someone has
said hey I'm gonna you know I'll keep
you in mind if they don't but I don't
know if the opportunities may not be a
match like I don't I try not to take it
personally but you know it's whatever
for sure for sure it's like when
somebody ghosts you it's like yeah what
did I say you know and then people are
telling me it's just the way it is
lately you know well how can SEO drive
like high intent bottom of funnel buyers
and then build also brand
um at the top of funnel opportunities a
space from a B2B perspective most of us
want to either fuel ourselves if we're
just our self-winding company or if not
a fuel our sales team there's a steady
flow of demo requests or consult
requests for those buyers that are
actually in market now so most of the
time that starts with getting as niche
as possible so you want to think about
what are the main types of service or
offer that we want inquiries for and
also what's the sub segment I.E the
verticals or Industries within that that
we want to surf because a lot of SEO
a lot of companies when they start SEO
they make the mistake of thinking oh
let's just pump out a load of Articles
load of blogs and hopefully they'll Rank
and there's it's not to say that blog
articles are bad because they can be
great but they're quite often for early
in the funnel prospects so what you want
to start with is thinking about like
what are the main Services want to sell
and what are the verticals within that
um industry that we can sell to I in our
case that might be B2B SAS SEO services
for an accountant that might be payroll
for financial companies for yourself
that might be copywriting for B2B SAS
companies so think about that long tail
Niche specific keyword to that sub
segment of those offers that you want to
create nail down all of those first of
all and create a service or service or
offer page for each one of those
and that might be 10 pages that might be
20 pages that might be 30 pages that
might be more
but
a quick tip to kind of make sure those
are actually going to have an impact is
literally Google the search term look at
the top three four companies that are
ranking organic top three or four spots
make a note of kind of how that content
is built up is it just kind of some tips
is it perhaps they've got the problem
they solve then they've got some
information about how they fix it maybe
they've got testimonials then maybe
they've got a few FAQs look for angles
gaps in their content that you can
improve upon maybe you can add a
relevant case study maybe you can
qualify people with pricing maybe you
can add a video walk through a useful
podcast maybe you've got Hands-On FAQs
maybe you can talk more about the
questions your customers ask you on
sales calls so look for ways you can
one-up the content that's currently
ranking and then build out those
detailed long-form pages for all those
main services and sectors you want to
cover within those services
and those are usually quick pretty quick
wins when you get that Niche with the
keywords that you can rank those pages
fairly quickly and when I say quickly
I'm talking within like a couple months
sometimes quicker because a lot of
companies neglect that once you've
nailed down those main service or offer
Pages then you can start working up the
funnel
or going for more generic keywords so
let's say in your instance Linda maybe
B2B copywriting for SAS companies
something like that then you might work
on a more competitive and generic term
like B2B copywriting company or
something like that well that's gonna be
a lot more competition but it's just
more of a slow burner that you can work
on then you might go mid funnel like um
Alternatives I.E Company competitor to a
versus compared to b or alternative to
competitor Zed those kind of comparison
searches where people are comparing
vendors and then again that can be a
service or offer page and then right at
the top of the funnel is kind of where
blog articles come in which are more for
building traffic building brand building
awareness and that's things like
10 tops tips to do this or how to do
this or
it might be a problem search like why
isn't my website converting or why isn't
my copy converting those kind of
questions where you can get top of the
funnel traffic it's unlikely they'll be
ready to go on the page read the article
and request a demo but you can guide
them to another resource like you could
say more tips like this sign up to our
email or check out my YouTube for more
details or check out our podcast for
similar tips so it's understanding the
user intent behind what you're creating
and starting with that bottom of the
funnel people ready to speak to sales
today then work your way up
yeah that makes total sense and the
whole thing with niching down too is
that people it's almost about finding
your value proposition you know when you
because that's how I tell
people like to really find you know what
separates you is to find that Gap what
what are your competitors not doing or
they're not doing well or they're not
talking about you know there's a lot of
stories about you know the what was it
Schlitz the beer there was I've talked
about this another podcast but there was
a famous copywriter I forget if it was
cables but um that you know was hired to
to increase sales for Schlitz and he
went over to the factories this is way
back when and noticed that they were
using a particular process that was
steam cleaning something and um their
equipment and he was impressed and the
person that was working with him said
well everyone every bear beer
manufacturer does this he goes when no
one talks about it so they made that the
focus of their ads and they like
quadruple sales they ended up being like
number one selling beer because everyone
did it but no one was talking about it
so it's almost like you got to find
those those Little Gems you know and so
definitely yeah I always go look gaps or
or think ways to stand out starting in
crowded markets and is there ever a
reason not to do SEO
there is there's plenty of reasons if
you are a brand new category or a brand
new sector I.E people aren't actually
aware that your solution or the vertical
you're in exists
it's almost pointless because no one's
going to be searching on Google for the
service or offer or industry that you're
after because they're not aware so if
you're creating a brand new category
this is pretty rare but it happens more
so in Tech yeah than SEO is not really
going to be worth the while because
you're not going to be able to capture
audience because they're not researching
for what you do you could get a real
high funnel and just talk about problems
or questions that your audience might
have but to be honest you'd be better
off going directly where your audience
hang out so that might be you creating
LinkedIn content and awareness there or
maybe through Linkedin ads maybe it's
being on communities that they hang out
in slack channels Etc or creating
content on YouTube is going to be a lot
more beneficial so understanding where
that audience is
um the other time it might not be
worthwhile is perhaps if you need
results super super fast perhaps you're
a funded company and you've got
investors that may be breathing down
your neck I.E we need 5000 mqls by the
end of the quarter and if we don't hit
that Target then your dust then I'd say
ship it all into paid ads and go
outbound because SEO is if you look if
you're trying to get results in a couple
months you can get some some results
from it but as a strategy just going all
in for a couple months it's it's not
going to be worth your time or effort so
those are a couple scenarios where it
probably doesn't make that much sense if
you've kind of needed results super fast
yeah and when you talk about speed uh
results because you mentioned earlier
about it taking several months I mean
what what are some of the parameters
like when people say oh I want you know
because everyone always wants results
right away and you know talking about
the long game isn't a popular thing
especially when you know they have
quotas to meet or whatever what it what
are some of the parameters time frame
wise for using SEO and expecting to see
a shift or being able to test it at
least
yeah yeah so when you go Niche so if you
if we're talking about that strategy
that I mentioned earlier with long tail
where you think about the services and
industries within those service and and
build up those pages you can if you've
got a reasonably established website
that's got a little bit of authority
it's been online for a while you can
actually get those pages ranking quite
quickly because I built out on our own
website a bunch of pages like SEO for
B2B SAS companies
um SEO for a bunch of different
Industries and built out these Pages
recently on ours and I got most of them
ranking kind of within a month wow um
the more competitive ones took a little
bit longer and likewise I've done
similar with kind of web development
terms like web development for B2B SAS
web development for B2B tech companies
all these kind of nuanced quite Niche
searches which don't have a ton of
traffic but they'll get a few visits and
the click-throughs that they do get are
going to be high intent so it's going to
trickle through a steady flow of
inquiries so yeah that that's literally
hands-on experience a lot of those I've
had ranking within within a month if
you've got a brand new website yes it's
going to take a bit longer because you
can have no reputation on Google and you
might need to kind of get a few links
built some content up there to juice up
the authority but some of those can be
super fast but as I mentioned when you
get into the more generic competitive
terms I.E just two words in the search
term like B2B copywriting I don't know
web design accounting software yes
that's going to be a hell of a
competitive those Search terms could
take years
um just because you've got monsters in
the game yeah and it's hard because even
though I try to narrow down my Niche to
B2B SAS I have heard many people tell me
I need to Niche down even farther and so
I'm still kind of exploring because I'm
I have people come to me and say well is
that all you you write for and I said no
it's not I mean I'm working with a book
author right now I mean it but it you
know so it there's part of me that's
like well I don't want to turn off turn
away people because if they're really
interested and it's a match for men
otherwise it's fine but that I think is
the hesitancy but I think um yeah you
definitely have to Niche down in order
to get the quality leads that you want
so makes total sense yeah so well this
has been great where can listeners find
you and learn more about you and your
company
yeah I appreciate it Linda so if if you
want kind of more free SEO tips and and
website ideas then you can connect me on
LinkedIn or check out the podcast it's
business growth show or if you're
perhaps a little frustrated that your
website isn't generating a steady flow
of leads from qualified prospects or
maybe every time you search for your
offer on Google competitors rank up
above you we might be able to help it
with our unusual approach we're over at
webchoiceuk.com
awesome well thank you again Sam I
really appreciate it it's been great
cheers thanks having me on and there you
have it if you found this episode useful
a quick rating or review on your podcast
channel is appreciated or if you're on
YouTube a subscribe goes a long way and
with that I'll catch you on the next one
cheers